---
layout: blog_post
title: "Join Us for Developer Day 2023"
author: alisa-duncan
by: advocate
communities: [devops,security,mobile,.net,java,javascript,go,php,python,ruby]
description: "Join us for Developer Day 2023 and take control of using identity to create secure applications in any technology."
tags: [event, identity, security, enterprise-ready]
tweets:
- "See you at #Devday23! Register today to join this free virtual event to build secure applications!"
image: blog/dev-day-2023/social.jpg
type: awareness
---

We're thrilled to bring back [Developer Day](https://developerday.com/) in 2023! Developer Day is an event for developers designed by developers. This year we're happy to announce this event is a free, two-day virtual event, so you can join us wherever you are! The event focuses on using identity to power secure applications, so join us to create a safer world for your application users.

Check out more in this teaser video
{% youtube eN9QDoE9xE0 %}

## Developer Day 2023 event

Authentication and identity can be complex! We want this to be a smooth day of conferencing, so we've broken this event into bite-sized chunks — each day is a few hours of exciting, engaging, and educational content.

Grab your brainfood snacks and prepare to take control of identity with Auth0 on May 16, 2023, and become enterprise ready with Workforce Identity Cloud on May 17, 2023. You'll hear from industry experts, Okta engineers, and Okta developer advocates.

Here's the full schedule and times

**Take Control of Identity with Auth0** <br/>
May 16, 2023 <br/>
10 am - 4 pm Eastern (UTC−04)

**Be Enterprise Ready with Workforce Identity Cloud**<br/>
May 17, 2023<br/>
10 am - 1 pm Pacific (UTC−07)


Ready to sign up? Register for free at [developerday.com](https://developerday.com/).

## See you at Developer Day 2023

We're looking forward to seeing you online at Developer Day 2023! Register and let us know you'll be there using the #Devday23 hashtag. Remember to share this event with your friends and network!

If you're interested in learning more about authentication, identity, and authorization, follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/oktadev) and subscribe to our [YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/c/OktaDev/). We'd also love to hear from you! Please comment below if you have any questions or want to share what topics you want to learn more about.
